we begin with the war in Gaza where
Israel is pressing on with its offensive
in the territory South after rejecting
calls from the United States to scale
back in a televised address prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that
Israel would not stop fighting in Gaza
until it has destroyed Hamas which is
considered a terrorist group by Israel
and the US now Netanyahu also rejected
calls by the US to facilitate a post-war
Palestinian
state as the fighting in Gaza rages on
Israel's increasingly at odds with its
closest
Ally the war in Gaza is still backed by
the United States but the intensity of
operations has come under us
scrutiny Israel says it won't cave to
American pressure prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu stresses Israel won't
scale back and appear to reject the idea
of creating a Palestinian state
state in any Arrangement whether there
is an accord or not the Israeli state
must have security control over all the
territory west of the Jordan River it's
a necessary condition but that clashes
with the principle of Palestinian
sovereignty so what can I say I've told
our American friends this truth I've
also stopped the attempt to impose a
reality on us that would harm Israel's
security and Israeli Prime Minister
should be able to say no even to our
best friends no when necessary yes when
possible but the US has reiterated
Palestinian statehood is the only path
to Lasting peace will we do believe that
this conflict as all conflicts do will
end at some point and that there needs
to be a political path forward for the
establishment of a Palestinian state
that is the only way not just to answer
the legitimate hope streams aspirations
of the Palestinian people but it is also
this is critical the only way to provide
lasting security for the Israeli people
and it's not just the us trying to push
the Israeli government in a different
direction in Tel Aviv protesters accuse
the government of pursuing aggressive
policies what we ask for is a different
politics a politics that can bring both
people who are living here also the
Jewish people and the Palestinian people
peace Liberty and security many fear an
outright rejection of Palestinian state
Hood now will only worsen Regional
tensions and trap Israel in Endless
conflict and let's get more from London
with Yosi meckelberg he is with the
Middle East and North Africa program at
the think tank chadam house welcome to
the program and thank you for joining us
this seems to be the furthest that
Netanyahu has gone in rejecting a
two-state solution publicly how much of
this is him playing to his domestic
audience and how much is he sending a
message to to you know allies and Beyond
abroad it's a difficult question a good
question but because netan flip flops
for many years according to political
needs mainly his own political needs to
stay in power and and survive in power
and if he sense that the mood in in
Israel is against the Palestinian State
that's exactly what what he says when
for instance he he talked about
annexation of parts of of the West Bank
and then it stopped the Abraham Accord
it stopped the idea of annexation and
and signed an agreement on with with the
UAE and bahin the Abraham Accord a
normalization with these countries there
there are no principles in the case of
netan anymore and there are no strategy
anymore with netan because he's facing
corruption try because he failed
miserably to to protect the people and
defend the people of Israel on on on
October 7 It's All About Him staying in
power but you know he sends a message to
the United States and it's time for the
United States to send the message back
and and we've seen the United States
they have steadily been ramping up
pressure on Israel um regarding how this
war has been progressing and especially
the the human toll that it has taken it
appears as if the United States keeps
getting brushed off at least publicly
how much influence does Washington still
have over is iseli policy especially
given the support that the US is
providing financially and
otherwise yeah I think actually the
United States should take nany's advice
you just said the clip that you that you
showed that good friends should
sometimes say no to to a close friends
and that's exactly what they should say
to Israel not to VTO assist fire in in
in in the security Council not to
support unconditionally war in Gaza that
claimed more than
24,000 lives many of them
civilians not to support a government
that is actually blocking a peace
agreement that as the spokesperson the
state department spokesperson said is
the only way to guarantee long-term is
SEC that that that that's your own
personal policy prescription for the
United States but but ultimately I mean
does the United States have that sort of
influence over Israel do you think that
it could get it to change
tact of course it can yeah it's my my
opinion but at the same time we know the
kind of close relations between the
United States and Israel and The
Leverage at the United States it from
day one not only from 7th October for
long before for decades isra the United
States politically diplomatically
economically militarily supports Israel
it means it also has a leverage V VIs
the Israel at at this point not only
Israel behaves in a way that that harms
its own interest it harms also American
interest at the same at certain point
the United States the Biden
Administration and I understand this
election here also to think about us
interests Regional interests Global
interest and also in this case help
Israel to look after its own interest
because we saw that it's failed timing
again so then let's let's let's broaden
it out a little bit um more into the
region because we've seen some Arab
states working on a plan to bring the
war to an end and a long-term solution
um the comments that we've heard from
Netanyahu what message does this send to
them
specifically you see if you want to B in
the and you're right for too long you
know the the Israel and the Palestinians
and the region and the International
Community tried to manage this conflict
they believed in this fallacy of status
s and this fell apart within few hours
on October 7 in the most horrific way
and since then we see a war that has no
end when netan talks about destroying
Hamas we see that this is becoming an
impossibility not only politically and
ideologically but also but also but also
but also militarily at the same time we
are not closer into bringing the
hostages back while the war is exping to
other fronts whether it's with in
Lebanon we see that now Iran and
Pakistan the H is in the Red Sea and so
on and so forth It's actually bring to
the surface a lot of the other conflicts
in the region that's why CIS far is so
important and a un security resolution
the only thing that blocks a resolution
on the CIS is actually the United States
Yosi meckelberg thank you so much uh for
joining us to share your view on the
political situation in the region we
appreciate
it thank
you